I'm sharing The Ultimate Guide to B2B
SAS SEO oh and even if you're a B2B
company outside of SAS this will help
you a ton too let's Dive In
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actual B2B
marketing SEO and website tips useful
podcasts goodies and more you can give
it a shot over at businessgrowth dot
email in this episode I'll be sharing a
complete walkthrough of B2B SAS SEO from
keyword research right to off-page SEO
and website best practices so you can
make organic search engine optimization
a top Revenue generating channel to
drive a steady flow of demo requests or
consult requests and leads for your
website and as I mentioned this is going
to be super useful even if you're
outside of B2B SAS let's jump into it
but first what are some of the common
problems I see with SAS companies well
often they invest heavily in outbound
sales so sdrs or bdrs hitting the phones
hitting emails hitting cold prospects to
generate appointments they often invest
a ton of cash into advertisements
whether that's Google ads LinkedIn ads
social ads or elsewhere meaning they're
missing out on a huge chunk of the
market they're using organic search that
are not clicking ads and showing up top
on organic search in Google and often
SAS companies are under a ton of
pressure from investors to hit
short-term targets so medium to long
term wins with Organic SEO is neglected
and another thing I see is that SAS
websites are often very thin on content
so maybe they have just a few basic
Pages like home about product and demo
meaning that their site is not content
Rich it's not properly optimized
technically or content wise and they're
not doing any off-page SEO meaning
organic traffic is massively neglected
and they're not getting the organic
demos or leads that they could be
enjoying
so why the heck should you invest in SEO
for your B2B SAS company well the beauty
of SEO is it can drive inbound Around
the Clock 24 7 not just now but for
years to come creating Evergreen
ecosystem of searchable content to drive
inbound for your sales team right from
prospects that are ready to speak to
sales today or up to prospects are
perhaps wanting to learn more about your
industry your Niche or get their
questions answered meaning if your brand
consistently shows up you're going to
build trust you're going to build
reputation and you're going to drive
traffic organically and inbound leads
and demo requests for now and years to
come creating that Evergreen ecosystem I
was talking about not only that but SEO
can actually reduce your advertisement
spend as once your organic traffic and
your inbound flow starts increasing you
may be less reliant on pay-per-click
based
so what do you need before you invest in
SEO where before you invest in SEO
you're going to need a solid website but
not just any website you're going to
need to follow best practices so making
sure the website loads quickly within
two seconds or so making sure it works
seamlessly on mobile tablet and PC
making sure it has an attractive
engaging design that's actually built
for your ideal clients in terms of the
messaging in terms of the main pages in
terms of the structure and that the
website is built to be your very best
sales rep as let's face it websites are
Live 24 7 unlike any sales professional
they're constantly there and on the
basis that you market and advertise them
right they can be either working hard to
drive inbound and drive leads for your
business or if you do them poorly then
are going to put out a bad reflection on
your brand and even cost you business so
ultimately your website needs to attract
engage it needs to build trust with
educate and qualify ideal clients into a
steady flow of inbound demo requests or
sales leads I actually put out a podcast
and a YouTube episode recently on the
seven must-have B2B website pages so if
you want more advice on how to make your
website your best sales rep before you
invest in SEO then check out that
podcast episode or that YouTube episode
to get a bunch of tips of building your
website to converts still unsure if SEO
is a good fit for you well the truth is
it might not be the best fit if you're a
brand new category or you're a brand new
sector or brand new Niche meaning that
people aren't aware of the problem you
solve or the solution that you provide
then SEO might not be the best fit
because that means prospects because
they're not aware of the offer or the
problem you're fixing they're not
actually searching for your Solution on
Google so you might be better placed to
educate them Market I.E creating content
that provides details on the problem you
solve and the solution that you address
to fix those problems so you might be
better creating content on the channels
your ideal clients hang out on whether
that's B2B so LinkedIn maybe podcast
Maybe YouTube maybe elsewhere however
the chances are you are in a category
that's established I.E people know about
your sector they know about your
solution they know that there's a
solution available for the problem that
you fixed so in which case SEO is going
to be a good use of your time you should
go into SEO with a medium to long-term
mindset meaning that it's not going to
be click your fingers done but over time
it's going to create your website as the
go-to for your industry it's going to
build up your brand reputation ramp up
that organic traffic and ramp up that
organic inbound so let's dive into the
Tactical tips so we're starting with
keyword research so it's time to ditch
and scrap everything you know about
keyword research for SEO yes you still
need to use the common tools but you
shouldn't solely rely on them in fact
your prospects your Target customers are
one of the best sources when it comes to
actually understanding what your target
market is searching for when they need
your offer when they have problems
around your solution when they have
frustrations when they want their
questions answered it's best to get this
info straight from the horse's mouth to
other ones that are actually going to be
looking for your offer looking to fix a
problem or improve their business or
life so a great starting point here is
to get with your sales team
perhaps have some coffees some beers
some drinks have lunch together whatever
you want to do and make thrash out an
entire list of all the common questions
that you get on sales calls all the
common objections and anything in
between do an entire list with your team
of every question that you get every
objection you get around your offer from
around your services around your pricing
around the features around integration
around support everything you can think
of the reason we're doing this is to
know what our prospects actually have
demand for to get answered what they
might be searching for what are the most
common things that are brought up so we
know that they're going to be consistent
there's going to be a lot of demand for
them in Google search and what are the
actual words that are prospects our
customers use to describe our offer so
rather than guessing we're literally
using the words that our customers use
regularly to us and you can get this
information from your sales team you can
also listen in to sales calls with tools
like gong and you can sit in on customer
success calls to get all this valuable
information and fresh out your
comprehensive list and once you've got
that comprehensive list the reason that
we've built that out is so we can seed
out long tail keyword opportunities and
when you're building out the content for
your information service product pages
feature Pages support Pages demo pages
and more we're handling the relevant
objections to each offer and we can put
in an FAQ section on each relevant page
where we can address those objections
address those questions and basically do
a salesperson's job and not only that
we're creating content that's got real
demand that's actually searchable thus
is going to rank better on Google so
then we want to jump into more
traditional keyword research this is
where you can use tools like semrush
hrefs ubersuggest Google Keyword Planner
there's many others on the market and if
you're looking for a free tool check out
hrefs webmaster tools we use it favorite
web choice and they're currently a
sponsor of the show so to start with you
want to start with bottom of the sales
funnel keyword opportunities
thus people very likely to want to get a
demo or speak to sales today so if
you're in a sales space you might be
looking let's say SAS sales you might be
looking at sales enablement software
sales proposal tools
sales proposal service those kind of
things might be relevant to your offer
meaning if someone types them in they're
probably looking to get a demo today you
want to go Niche you want to go specific
and you want to be as focused in on your
target market as possible so when I say
Niche long tail and specific let's say
you provide CRM Services rather than
just going after the CRM which is going
to be a massively competitive term
let's say one of your target markets is
small businesses you might say CRM for
small business let's say another Market
is accountancy you might go best CRM for
accountants let's say another is
Tradesman best CRM for Tradesman or CRM
for trades companies Etc you get the
idea we're going Niche we're going into
our Target markets we're also attracting
the ideal fit clients that we want to
actually get demo requests or inbound
leads from so think about all those
Target markets so understand what
they're searching for then use the SEO
tools and software to give you a good
idea of the amount of traffic that they
get and understand that traffic isn't
the be all and endl as some Search terms
could have really low traffic but could
be super high intense when your
prospects search for it they actually
want to speak to sales today but the
good thing about SEO tools is they can
give you competitor research you can
check out what your competitors ranking
for to give you some ideas and they can
also give you a rough idea of the
difficulty of different Search terms and
some other ideas for your keyword
research are problem-based searches so
in our case that might be how to reduce
website bounce rate how to reduce the
churn rate that could be how to improve
conversion rate on my website how to
rank higher on Google
how to invest in SEO how long does SEO
take what's the typical time frames all
these kind of common problems and
addressing those another could be
comparisons so your company name versus
a common competitor and the beauty of
this is you can build out competitive
pages so it really helps convert
prospects to evaluating you versus
another vendor another idea is question
searches how to do X best way to do why
how to improve Zed covering each stage
of the cells process the sales funnel
from initial problems that we talked
about to evaluation to directly
searching for the solution the high
intense Search terms we talked about
earlier and finally going for zero
traffic searches
so if you know that there's a specific
feature a specific service a specific
industry that you want to Target with a
search term and you know there's demand
for it because you get commonly asked at
your sales team do rather and perhaps
these keywords are showing up as zero
traffic on the common SEO tools or
software but you know there's demand for
it why not go for it because you've got
to remember a lot of the common SEO
tools are working off historical data so
they might show zero traffic now but the
truth is these keywords are actually
driving traffic so if you can build a
best-in-class website page that ranks
you can soak up you can enjoy all those
leads because none of your competitors
are going for them so bear in mind zero
traffic keywords can actually be a gold
mine next up we've got on-page SEO and
on-page SEO is typically split into two
sections you've got technical SEO so how
your website is technically built and
then you've got the content side of the
things how the content is put together
and and structured so let's dive into
the technical SEO side of things and
what that entails first so technical SEO
will typically start with an audit of
your website and it will cover a whole
bunch of things typically involving
things like page speed so you want to
make sure your website loads nice and
quick on mobile tablet and desktop you
can use a tool like Google page feed
insight to check your page speed and you
can get actionable tips to improve it a
few common suspects for a slow site are
things like heavy images if the image
files are too large it could be you've
got a ton of plugins on your WordPress
site maybe your platform's out of date
maybe you've got a bunch of videos and
you want to actually make those images
that when you click them they load the
video those are some common suspects but
make sure you check out your page speed
on a tool like page speed insights or
GTM metrics and understand where it's at
now try to get it to two seconds or less
so you don't have tons of people
bouncing off your site and negatively
impacting SEO so you want to set about
SEO data tools like Google analytics so
you can track the traffic your website's
getting you can track conversion rates
so you can set up conversion points for
click to calls when someone fills out
forms when they book a demo when they
click your email and various other
things like how long people stay on the
website for key Pages they visit all
your traffic sources from organic search
from Paid search referral socials and
more you can also look at tools like
hotjar so you can see recordings of heat
Maps or where people are clicking on
your site but also session recordings
how people interact on your site to give
you an idea to improve your conversion
rate you want to set up Google my
business and Google search console to
help with your SEO and recording too you
want to assess your competitors to see
what keywords your competitors are
targeting how well they're ranking any
gaps or any areas that you can improve
upon you want to sort out your metadata
so your meta titles and meta
descriptions so what's actually shown in
the search engine results pages and
encourage people to click through when
they see the descriptions in those you
want to sort out your heading tags so
your page titles your H1s H2S and so on
so how your page is structured and how
Google's going to pick up your content
you want to build out landing pages so
for each of these main keywords that
we're gonna look to rank we want a
relevant dedicated page so Google's
actually going to server prospects
content that's relevant to their search
query give them the best answers
possible you want to look at other
things so keyword cannibalization I.E
when several Pages might be ranking for
the same search term you want to pick
the one that's going to be the most
relevant rather than ranking for stuff
that might not actually give users what
they're searching for
and also sorting things like alt text
for images sorting title attributes
sorting core web vitals best practices
like we talked about page load speed
good solid technical SEO with all these
points that we discussed and also making
sure that your website gives visitors
the best experience possible no matter
what device they open on making sure
many navigation is easy to view both on
mobile and PC making sure it's easy for
prospects to find what they want whether
they want to book a demo whether they
want to check out your resources whether
you want to quickly see what you do how
you help them and more making sure your
website ultimately gives your end
visitors the best experience possible
from speed
right through to end conversion and when
it comes to on-page content your first
priority should be building out all the
pages that high intent prospects might
be searching for relevant to your
services your features the industry or
the Persona that they're in so I'm going
to go through our B2B SEO for SAS page
in a second it's also worth bearing in
mind that this should be the first Focus
because it can capture High intent
prospects when they're searching for
that offer and that's relevant to the
industry really good for those long tail
keywords we talked about earlier and
once you've built out all those pages
then you can look at higher up the
funnel so building out article pages to
address problems or questions or more
that your customers might have and
recently at the time of recording Google
recently rolled out the eeat framework
so that stands for experience expertise
Authority and Trust so you want to make
sure that your website demonstrates
hands-on experience as well as all those
other factors so if I take a look at our
B2B SEO for SAS
page some of the basics that you want to
think about is straight away giving
prospects the answer they're searching
for so give them a quick overview of the
topic that they've actually searched for
having a call to action above the fold
so if they do want to speak to sales
you've got a call to action to click
through to get a demo we then like to
put in some social proof
so this is a long form page we've then
got some sliding testimonials then we're
talking about the topic in a bit more
details in our case what is B2B SEO for
SAS what does it Intel then we've got a
video walkthrough of how you can win
with B2B SEO for SAS
and we talk about how it works so what
is the process how do we get results
what's involved does your business
actually need it so talking about if
it's relevant for the Prospect and the
user why they should pick you why they
should pick your company to help them
with the solution
then we talk about the process in detail
so in our case analyzing everything from
technical SEO off page SEO content link
building giving them the full scope of
work so they can understand what's
entailed a bit more about why they
should choose us and the approach that's
involved and then right down to the
bottom we've got FAQs and this is
actually taken from the list that you'd
made earlier with your common questions
that's relevant to this page so we're
talking about things like how long does
it take how much might it cost what
should you do before you invest isn't it
faster to invest in Google ads and SEO
so we're literally bringing up the
objections that your prospects might
have addressing those directly removing
by anxiety and making them more more
likely to trust your brand and then
we've got another call to action at the
bottom some Brands we work with
to finish off so that's not a bad
structure in terms of making sure you
address Google's eeat framework making
sure you give prospects the answers
they're searching for handle their
problems give them the benefits that you
provide answer their questions give them
clear social proof to build that trust
and then guide them to take action with
that request to quit or whatever is
relevant maybe request a demo book or
call whatever's relevant to your offer
in fact this is the framework that we've
built out on our own pages so we
recently put out a page for B2B SAS web
development at webchoice and that's
actually now out ranking Salesforce and
outranking webflow for that Target
keyword
of other countries so give that a shot
when you're building out your website
content for those key pages that you
want to get ranking and once you've
nailed your on-page SEO you want to look
at off-page SEO so this is everything
you do off your website from content
distribution to listings to building
backlinks and more off-page SEO is going
to be especially important when you want
to get competitive and more generic
Search terms ranking so one of the best
ways to do this is by building quality
backlinks Google Sees backlinks as a
trust building factor for your site they
can build up your website's domain
Authority and get those difficult to
rank Pages up in the organic search
results there's a few free ways that you
can use to build up your backlinks so
first is actually guesting on industry
relevant podcasts you can use a site
like chartable where you can search
for your Niche or your industry you can
find the top ranking podcasts you can
then Prospect and get in touch with the
hosts of the podcast on tools like
LinkedIn or via called email ask them to
go on the show give them a compelling
pitch of the problems you can talk about
and the benefits you can bring to the
show and then if you get on those top
ranked podcasts in your industry once
you've recorded a useful session you can
ask on the page that they put out on
their podcast website on the article
page to give a backlink back to your
site so that's one way you can also
partner
with complementary companies so let's
say in our space at web Choice maybe
we'll pick out analytic softwares or CRM
softwares they don't directly compete
with us but they offer a complimentary
service we could create some content
together maybe a podcast maybe a video
and then we'd also create some article
pages on each other's websites and then
put a back link to each other's sites
you can also use help or reporter out
h-a-r-o this is a great platform where
you can actually submit to request or
put out a article on journalism sites so
you can look at the available pitches
where journalists need help putting
together content you can put together a
piece and if they actually approve your
article you can get a really strong
backlink from a journalist a news based
or article site it can be quite tricky
but can pay off massively if you get a
really high Authority link back to your
site another way is pitching guest
article sites so any sites that allow
guest based links or guest based
articles you can pitch those that are
relevant in your Niche or your industry
or the last three ways to actually
create content that's just so good that
it's just so well ranked so
comprehensive answers all your common
prospects questions problems is a super
useful resource from A to Z and it's so
useful that people just rank to it
naturally because it's so hard hitting
and it's one of the best
and then some paid ways to build up
backlinks are actually purchasing
editorial links to where you put out a
great article and have a link back to
your site yes paid is done many times in
the SEO industry just be careful that
you're not going to spammy sites that
put out thousands of links and that
could give you a negative impact it
could even cause your website to be as
bad as blacklisted on Google which is
possible or it could have just a really
poor impact on your rankings pushing you
down in the search results or you can go
to an agency or an SEO consultancy or a
company like web choice to manage the
full SEO process for you from on page to
off page to link building and another
way to build up your off-page SEO is
through citations or directory listings
where you find out directories that are
relevant to your Niche to your industry
and you put up your business listings
your company name address details and
you can also get a decent link back to
your site so to wrap up if you're not in
a brand new category or a brand new
sector SEO is going to be a gold mine of
opportunity to ramp up your organic
traffic and inbound demo requests and
inbound leads it's going to create an
evergreen ecosystem for not just the
medium to long term but for many years
to come meaning that you've got multiple
lines in the water so whenever a
prospect has a question around your
industry or your Niche whenever they
have a problem they want fixed or most
importantly whenever they're ready to
speak to sales today around your offer
if your website shows up top of organic
search you can capture that demand you
can drive them to your website and then
convert them into an inbound opportunity
not only that it can reduce your
advertisement spend over time with the
organic traffic and inbound that comes
in and it can complement a demand
generation strategy so if you're doing
things like LinkedIn ads if you're doing
podcasts if you're doing organic social
content if prospects are constantly
seeing you outside of Google and when
they do a search on Google they're
seeing you up top too it's going to
build up your brand reputation build up
your trust and make them more likely to
go ahead with your business if you do
need help with your organic SEO strategy
feel free to get in touch with us over
at
webchoiceuk.com as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on Apple or Spotify is much appreciated
or if you're on YouTube a subscribe goes
a long way and with that I'll catch you
on the next one cheers